### Assignment: Visualizing Government Debt

For this project, I looked at publically accessible data available through [OECD Data](https://data.oecd.org/), specifically looking at [General Government Debt](https://data.oecd.org/gga/general-government-debt.htm). This data set shares the general goverment debt-to-Gross Domestic Products ratio, more easilty called the **Debt-to-GDP Ratio**. According the OECD Data, this ratio is an important indicator of a government's financial sustainability. What the ratio actually measures is the general government's total gross debt as a percentage of the GDP.

I initially viewed the information through the OECD portal, seeing the **column** or **bar graph** below. This graph visualized a specific year, in this case 2020, of ratios and compared them from lowest to highest among nations. While it was easy to see the range of ratios and track who had high and low scores, it was more difficult to locate specific countries due to the organization method at the bottom. 

<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6Bgn" width="700" height="525" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6Bgn" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2020</a></iframe>

Following this, I downloaded the full data set Microsoft Excel sheet and used [Flourish](https://flourish.studio/) to create my own visualization following prompts provided by my professor. Creating a **sparkline inspired version**, I was able to visualize the data in a new format with some specific design choices. In addition to the professor's prompts, I decided to creat a heading that was more descriptive and that had accompanying text that provided meaning and context to the data. I also included definitions and why the data points were important or relavent to the topic. Finally, I chose to implement the color green since the conversation revolves around money. In the United States, there is a frequent correlation between money and the color green.

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/8556661"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

Although I enjoyed the original bar graph, I wanted to see if there was a way to make it more useful to viewers wanting to compare data between countries within a single year. But, I also wanted to make sure that the data for multiple years was accessible. I chose to create a series of **Line Charts** that were viewable by using a dropdown menu to select a desired year. Again, I kept the color selection clean so as to emphasize any text that the viewer my hover over. While some information was lost through this new visualization, I liked several aspects of this new version of the Debt-to-GDP Ratio as seen within a year. By implementing a slightly brighter color in addition to the gray and black, I drew the viewer's attention to the line and dots on each graph. This would catch the viewer's attention faster. Additionally, by decreasing the amount of text for the countries and using abbreviations, I decreased textual clutter. Although it might be considered ideal to decrease even more, because the chart is focused on comparing countries Debt-to-GDP ratios, I believe it is important to keep nation names present. Finally, part of the chart's purpose was to compare the contries but to put all the text on the chart itself would make it unreadable. As such, I carried over the mechanism demonstrated by the original chart, allowing hover capabilities over each dot to show the exact data for each country. One drawback from this chart type was that it lost the sense of ranking from lowest to highest ratios. While it gained organization and the ability to find a country's name quickly, some comparison capabilities were lost. But, the  navigational aspect through the dropdown menu made viewing annual data much faster. Through more exploration with Flourish, I would like to add an additional line that shows the median ratio.

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/8557980"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>
